National College of Ireland
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Contents
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
A1
Introduction: Chair of NCI Governing Body
Foreword: NCI President
Mission, Vision, Core Values and Distinctive Access Pathways
Strategic Plan Development Process
What We Found
Strategic Plan Overview: Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
High-Level Implementation Framework
What Success Looks Like for NCI
Distinctive Characteristics of NCI Graduates
Acronym Meaning
Early Learning Initiative
Governing Body
Higher Education Authority
Key Performance Indicator
National College of Ireland
ELI
GB
HEA
KPI
NCI
Strategy Acronyms
Page 1 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027
2
3
5
6
7
15
16
17
Page
1
NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 Page 2
Foreword:
Gina Quin
NCI President
Introduction:
Fr Leonard Moloney SJ
Chair of NCI Governing Body
I am delighted to present National College of Ireland’s Strategic Plan 2022-2027. I invite our students, alumni, staff,
and stakeholders, to celebrate and implement this ambitious strategy.
Our strategic ambitions build on NCI’s mission to ‘change lives through education’, through brilliant students,
expert staff, our collective commitment to access and social justice, academic excellence, and sustainability.
Access will remain central to our higher education programmes as the College provides pathways to success through
academic excellence and diverse modes of delivery, recognising many innovative routes to tertiary education and
our unique commitment and expertise in Early Learning.
NCI, by 2027, aims to be a distinctive and independent HEA designated institution, with delegated awarding
authority, delivering successful graduates, and a world-class model of community engagement, from an
8,500-strong student body, in a state-of-the-art campus.
This ambition will be achieved through the continuing guidance of our Governing Body, our stakeholders,
government, Department of Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and Science, Quality and
Qualifications Ireland, the Higher Education Authority and our partners across Irish businesses and the
community and voluntary sector.
I would like to acknowledge the assistance of Mazars Consulting in preparing this strategy, and would like to thank
my colleagues, our Governing Body Chair, Fr. Leonard Moloney, and all on Governing Body, who have made this
ambitious plan possible. Your insights have been invaluable. Now, let’s make it happen!
The most distinctive feature of NCI is its commitment to access. NCI’s purpose will always be to offer accessible
academic excellence, through third-level education that improves the lives of students, families and communities.
This strategic plan builds on NCI’s distinctive position in the higher education landscape. On behalf of the Governing
Body, I wholeheartedly endorse this plan and wish the President, Executive, staff, students and stakeholders, well in
its implementation.
NCI continues its mission of ‘changing lives through education’.
Mission, Vision and Core Values
2
Mission
To change lives
through
education.
Vision
NCI will provide an
inspiring educational
experience that is
innovative, responsive and
enterprise focused.
Core Values
Inclusive
Community
Integrity
Dynamic
Learner Centred
 Excellence.
We strive to break down barriers
in third-level education; we value
diversity and inclusiveness in all
that we do; we provide the support
that people need to participate fully
in life at NCI.
We are an interdependent learning
community that shares a common
set of principles where individuality
and freedom of thought and
expression are valued; each of us
is encouraged to fulfil our ambition
and realise our potential.
In our individual and collective
roles, we take responsibility and
are accountable for our actions; we
demonstrate respect and mutual
regard for each other.
We are responsive to the needs
of our students, colleagues and
partners and an ever-changing
society; we act in an innovative
and flexible manner.
We place the learner at the heart
of everything we do; our combined
energies are focused on their
individual and collective, lifelong
needs.
As an institution, we aspire
to professional excellence in
everything we do; we foster
excellence in our learners through
their learning experiences.
Inclusive Community
Integrity Dynamic
Learner
Centred Excellence
Page 3 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027
NCI: A distinctive higher education institute
providing unique access pathways

NCI is a distinctive higher education institution in the HE landscape. Guided by our mission, vision
and values, NCI has a clear focus and record of delivering access to higher education. NCI’s distinctive
access is provided through our track record of:
• flexibility in programme delivery modes, part-time, full-time, accelerated degrees,
microcredentials etc.
• agility and innovation in programme development with specific focus on skills and student
employability, and closeness to industry
• our collaboration with further education colleges, secondary schools, industry and government
• our unique programme of early education ‘from cradle to college’ through the Early Learning
Initiative
• our physical positioning in the heartland of Dublin’s North Inner City, an area of extreme
economic, social and educational disadvantage which is also home to Ireland’s International
Financial Services Centre and Silicon Docks multinational companies
• and our maintenance of a research-informed, student-centred approach to learning and
 teaching that is sustainable, relevant and progressive for students, staff and the wider
 community.
2
NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 Page 4
Strategic Plan Development Process
Methodology Overview
To facilitate the development of our strategic plan, we adopted the methodology as illustrated below.
3
Analysis
We analysed the data
collected throughout.
Consultations
We engaged a wide
range of internal and
external stakeholders.
Desk-Based Review
We reviewed
documentation
pertinent to
developing the new
strategic plan for NCI.
Survey
We surveyed our staff
and associate faculty.
NCI Strategic
Plan 2022-2027
Priorities
Students
Staff
Teaching
Research
Access
Positioning
Page 5 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027
4
What We Found
Higher Education Landscape Analysis
Our analysis of the higher education landscape in Ireland tells us the sector is continuing to grow
in terms of student numbers. The 20-25% growth in domestic demand observed over the last
decade is likely to be seen again over the next 10 years. In contrast, the number of institutions
appears to be decreasing with a smaller number of larger institutions, driven by national policy,
particularly around technological universities. Internationalisation of the student body continues
apace, although there is evidence of some institutions/systems taking steps to reduce/manage
reliance on international fee income. Higher education has become more accessible to all sectors
of society, and more adaptable to meeting the State’s social, economic, and labour market needs.
National policy is also clearly flagging a stronger linkage and structured collaboration between
further and higher education, and it is also likely that we will see more interventions to address
the skills needs in the economy. Finally, from a system governance perspective, there is a clear
move to a stronger regulatory environment as evidenced by the proposed legislative changes in
the HEA Bill.
What Our Stakeholders Told Us
When we talked to our key stakeholders, internal and external, a number of key messages
emerged regarding our development over the past decade:
• Providing access to quality education in our chosen areas is our most distinctive attribute and
should remain central to all that we do.
• Our student body has changed substantially in recent years. We should build on its diversity
– ranging from part- to full-time, from domestic to international, from Central Applications
Office students to in-work students, to support our distinctive mission.
• Our approach to staffing, ranging from associate faculty from relevant employers to
community representatives in the ELI, is strongly rooted in the communities we serve. This is a
distinctive feature of NCI and should be fostered.
• Our excellence and innovation in design, delivery, supports and assessment of programmes
underpins our ability to offer unique access to education. Our approach to teaching and
learning (at a pace and in a way that suits the learner) is a distinguishing feature of NCI that
we should build upon.
• We should build our research and innovation capacity in a manner that is tightly coupled to
our distinctive mission.
• We occupy a distinctive position within the Irish higher education landscape. We should focus
on nurturing and developing that distinctive position.
Our Priorities for 2022-2027
Based on the above we have decided to focus on six key priorities for 2022-2027:
Students; Staff; Teaching; Research; Access; and Positioning.
NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 Page 6
Strategic Plan Overview
One connected plan – from mission to outcome
Driven by our mission, vision and values, the NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 identifies six priorities:
Students, Staff, Teaching, Research, Access, and Positioning. Each priority is associated with a range of
objectives, actions, key performance indicators (KPIs) and outcomes, illustrated as follows:
5
Page 7 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Strategic Priorities
Priorities
Based on our analysis of the stakeholder consultations, staff survey and our assessment of the
higher education environment, we have decided to focus on six key priorities for 2022-2027:
NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 Page 8
5
Page 9 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Strategic Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
1. Students
We will foster a distinctive NCI graduate (see A1) and a wellbalanced graduate body that aligns to our mission in terms
of distinctive and flexible modes of learning (access) and
internationalisation.
Outcome: A balanced student/graduate body that is reflective
of our mission (to change lives through education), relevant in
a modern, international world and sustainable in the context of
global education.
To deliver a distinctive higher education student experience aligned with mission
to change lives through education that is built on access, academic excellence,
enterprise focus, community engagement and social justice
To develop successful graduates that have a lifelong love of learning, who are valued
contributors to the workforce and society, and who are committed to sustainability
To retain existing balance in the student body across domestic and international
students, increasing integration and interactions of both student bodies and to develop
the internationalisation of domestic students through the Erasmus+ charter
To work in partnership with our student body to ensure that the student voice is
integral to our planning, resourcing, innovations and sustainability
To drive excellence and accessibility in our student supports across our physical
and digital campuses
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
Objectives:
5
NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 Page 10
Strategic Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
2. Staff
We will support and train all of our staff to be agile and responsive
in meeting the needs of students, employers and other key
education partners.
Outcome: A skilled and motivated staff that are supported to have
a clear understanding of mission and strategy and the needs of
stakeholders, sustainability and the environment.
To support all staff to excel in role and be student-centred, agile and responsive to
our strategy
To optimise the permanent/associate faculty model to deliver excellence in teaching
and graduate outcomes, incorporating both academic excellence and up-to-date
enterprise knowledge
To actively engage all staff to support the College’s ambition for delegated
authority and HEA designation
To recognise the complementary roles of research-active and teaching staff in
delivering our programmes and student outcomes
To provide staff development in line with institutional strategy to ensure effective
training, career paths, and both professional and academic development
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
Objectives:
5
Page 11 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Strategic Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
3. Teaching
We will develop and maintain successful programmes, distinctive
in our design, delivery and assessment and aligned with the UN
Sustainable Development Goals.
Outcome: Successful, innovative, sustainable programmes aligned
to our unique position in the higher education landscape.
To drive pedagogical innovation and excellence that support our student body and
respond to national need
To provide industry-relevant programmes and graduates that excel in the workplace
To continue to lead in digital transformation and innovation across our academic
programmes
To develop the processes and data sets that drive the relevance and effectiveness of
NCI’s programme design, assessments and graduate outcomes
To align teaching, innovation and research with our academic and institutional
strategies, our mission to change lives through education, and UN Sustainable
Development Goals
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
Objectives:
5
NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 Page 12
Strategic Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
4. Research
We will invest in a step change in research and innovation capability,
in a manner that is closely connected to our distinctive offering.
Outcome: A research environment that supports our distinctive
provider status, attracts and retains good staff, and enables
productive employer relationships.
To drive research and innovation that is specific to the purpose and nature of NCI
and fully aligned with mission
To engage employers, external partners and community in research
and innovation partnerships
Research will prioritise the informing of pedagogy and student learning within
the classroom, the programmes and impact of the Early Learning Initiative and
collaboration with employers and partners
To develop a research infrastructure to support research alignment, to identify
funding opportunities, research collaborators and partners, and to provide research
administration
To increase research funding and commercialisation opportunities in line with these
research objectives and NCI’s mission to change lives through education
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
Objectives:
5
Strategic Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
5. Access
Guided by our mission, vision and values, NCI will continue
and develop its focus on delivering accessible higher education.
Outcome: NCI is a distinctive and leading higher education institution
in the HE landscape delivering diverse access to higher education
through programme agility and innovation, flexibility in delivery modes,
collaboration across the HE landscape, mission-centric research activity and
‘cradle to college’ programmes, from our North Inner City Campus.
To continue to enhance NCI’s leadership in access to education, broadening
participation, educational pathways and diverse delivery modes
To embed access in our programme design, delivery, assessment and in all
student services
To continue to be a thought leader in access and innovation in third-level education
To measure, celebrate and support equality, diversity, inclusion and sustainability
To continue to provide transformative ‘cradle to college’ education services through
our Early Learning Initiative, both locally to inner city, disadvantaged families and
children, and nationally, through our ELI Centre of Excellence
5.1
5.2
5.3
5.4
5.5
Objectives:
Page 13 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027
5
05
Strategic Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
Priorities, Outcomes and Objectives
6. Positioning
We will build on our foundation of distinctive education provision
in our chosen fields and will become increasingly recognised as
a valued, distinctive provider.
Outcome: A recognised regionally-focused, nationally impactful
and sustainable higher education institute, committed to access
and innovation, in function of successful and employable graduates
and flexible lifelong learning.
To strengthen our position as a distinctive provider of accessible higher education
within the sector, with a clear commitment to social justice
To continue to develop partnerships with employers, community, students and the
further education sector, in programme design, pathways, work placements and
student employability
To secure NCI’s distinctive position within higher education as a designated
HEA institution with delegated authority to award qualifications
To celebrate, develop and achieve institutional accreditations aligned with strategy for
both academic and operational activities
To continue our commitment to social justice and sustainability across all NCI
strategic objectives ensuring that NCI and our students contribute to society
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
Objectives:
NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 Page 14
5
High-Level Implementation Framework
Executive Management and Governing Body Tracking
Creating a clear, easily understood implementation framework that visualises the priorities, objectives,
actions, KPIs, accountability and timelines makes everyone part of the strategic journey. In order to
realise our priorities and objectives, KPIs will be tracked and monitored over the life of the strategic
plan to ensure we remain on track and deliver results.
To ensure the successful delivery of any strategic plan it is important to put in place the appropriate
structures to provide accountability, flexibility and ongoing risk management and mitigation
throughout the strategy lifetime and also to oversee its implementation. We will adopt a committed,
flexible, agile and responsive approach to delivering this strategic plan, where initiatives are defined
and redefined where necessary to ensure we stay ahead.
The strategic plan will be tracked quarterly at Executive-level, monitoring of implementation at GB-level
is also required. Two standalone GB assessments of the implementation of the strategic plan will take
place during the strategy lifetime. The first of these reviews will take place after 18 months and the
second to take place after 36 months. These assessments will consider:
• To what extent is the implementation of this strategic plan on target?
• To what extent has the environment changed and how has NCI responded?
Successful implementation of this plan will require significant collaboration and engagement between
a number of NCI stakeholders in order to ensure that the potential of NCI is realised, and the solid
foundations put in place to date are built upon to achieve the ambitious priorities set out in this
strategic plan.
6
Strategic Plan 2022-2027
Page 15 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027
2022 2023 2024 2025 2027
7
What Success Looks Like for NCI in 5 Years’ Time:
Distinctive Provider
We are recognised as a distinctive provider in higher education, providing access and
broadening participation through innovative teaching, student supports, diverse delivery
modes and a focus on lifelong learning, with clear community and enterprise engagement.
Employer-Focused
We have strong relationships with employers who provide input to programme design,
accreditation, placements, graduate employment and research partnerships.
Community-Engaged
We are recognised as a model of community engagement, and a national leader in early
education interventions for both early learning and student access.
NCI Students
We have 8,500 students (full-time and part-time) who are proud to be distinctive NCI
graduates.
NCI Staff
Our staff are supported and motivated to excel in their role as educators and professionals,
aligned to NCI’s mission and strategy and our position in the HE landscape and wider
community.
Space
We meet best practice in contemporary learning environments and have appropriate
space for students, community and activities in our city-centre campus.
Learner Experience
We provide academic excellence and enterprise experience through innovative teaching,
learning, assessments and research from full-time and industry expert academics.
Positioning
We are an independent, HEA-designated institution with relevant funding, awarding NCI
qualifications; a collaborative thought leader in higher education and access.
Sustainability
NCI and NCI students demonstrate commitment to furthering the UN Sustainable
Development Goals across all activities.
NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027 Page 16
Distinctive Characteristics of NCI Graduates
A1
Page 17 NCI Strategic Plan 2022-2027

National College of Ireland
Mayor Street, IFSC, Dublin 1,
Eircode: D01 K6W2
Tel: Reception (01) 4498500
Email: info@ncirl.ie
Web: www.ncirl.ie